1. ABOUT THE PROJECT

This project was developed for the Heuristic Algorithms course I took in my university. I developed a simple image encryption method where the images are divided in to 16X16 pixel blocks and pixels can be shuffled horizontally and vertically in these blocks. Shuffling pattern is determined by the key we provide the encryption algorithm. The main purpose of this project is to find the optimal key among the key space (16!) using different heuristic methods; genetic algorithm, simulated annealing, hill climbing and compare the performance of these methods. Also I tried to develop a hybrid approach using Blowfish algorithm -which is an industry standard encryption algorithm- on top of my encryption method to see if I can surpass Blowfish's performance for image encryption.  

- Methodology
  - Image is first encrypted with my encryption algorithm with the key generated by heuristic algorithms.
  - Then the output is given to the blowfish encryption algorithm to get the final encrypted version of the original image.
- Encrypted images generated by different heuristic algorithms(GA/SA/HC) are then compared by using SSIM and PSNR units.
- Encrypted images generated by different hybrid algorithms(GA-Blow, SA-Blow, HC-Blow) are also compared by using SSIM and PSNR units.

2. BUILT WITH

- Python 3.10.5 was used for the entire project. No additional frameworks/plugins were used.

3. GETTING STARTED

3.1. PREREQUISITES

- You should run setup.py to install necessary packages to run the project.

3.2. RUNNING THE PROJECT

- After installing the necessary packages with setup.py, you should run main.py file to start the project.
- Running main.py, user will get a prompt asking for the comparison unit to compare the encrypted images with the original images. These comparison results will later be used to create comparison tables.
- User should enter ssim or psnr as input. After taking the input from user, program will run necessary encryption functions (explained in detail by commentary on main.py) and draw the comparison tables for heuristic, hybrid encryption methods. It will also draw a table that compares traditional Blowfish encryption algorithm with the hybrid encryption methods.
- Program saves the images which are encrytped by blowfish and our hybrid technique under the "encrypted-images/blowfish" directory. Images that are encrypted using only heuristic algorithms are saved under the path according to the heuristic method used.
(ex. "encrypted-images/ga", "encrypted-images/sa")
